Feb Recap - March Projects
External
Inbox
Work - Redside Ranch


Ryder Redfield
Mon, Mar 3, 10:23 AM (4 days ago)
to me

Greetings good sir, Here is a quick feb summary and march forecast
 
Redside and overall update- 

Rene has cleaned out the big shop racks at Redside and Brinks are now starting construction of the symmetrical mezzanine to the existing one but with open floor plan underneath to maximize storage and leave open space in shop for projects and bigger vehicles. It was a really nice February and we got much more done than expected with such good weather. There weren’t any problems or emergencies and felt like one of the best months to date. In January and the first few days of Feb, Kerry finished up the retention wall SE corner of bowling alley which looks significantly better than before. Sierra is working on the Dry Fly landing page with images and bios. Adele has gotten the Strawbale house under control with some solar improvements and general appliance repair. We redid the cracked concrete floor and patched a lot of the interior cracking.

 

Vineyard-

Kerry has been pre-pruning all month by himself. Come mid march we will realign drip irrigation to prep for the upcoming season. We are looking into 10 short fruit trees to plant in the middle row of terrace that gets over spray from the grapes, but not spacious enough for another row of grapes. That will add a nice aesthetic and a protected area to grow some fun fruit.

 

 

Natural resource update- Eric Evans
Juniper thinning project continues within Deep Canyon. I estimate that we have covered more than half of the treatment area with hand crews. I rented a large tree masticator tractor which is considerably slower but thoroughly mulches the trees.  I am using it along the NW side of the canyon to start, moving across towards the east slopes later this week.  ODFW officials will be taking a tour of the treatment sites in a couple of weeks to hopefully approving the work completed to date.  Additional grant funding is being sought for additional phases of thinning. OSU is planning to offer a student restoration course this spring and hope to have interested students develop additional habitat restoration plans on the mine site focusing on revegetation & monitoring opportunities.   I will be meeting with Alison again to work through details. The mine site received an additional 200cy of manure spread across the eroding berm on the north edge to help control more dust and establish additional vegetation growth.  I will be adding additional irrigation this spring.  Nutrifix fertilizer and bluebunch wheatgrass seed was spread on the Redside peninsula with hope of suppressing the cheatgrass infestation and begin outcompeting its growth with native grasses.  This boron-rich fertilizer has been effectively suppressing cheatgrass on project sites Montana. Monitoring will continue through the summer.  
The aspen meadow project will get string trimmed and additional seed will be spread/drilled followed with more hand line set up, to expand the wet zone for vegetation establishment.

 

Farm Summary- Conrad Crawford

January and February are normally the slow months for farming. So, we have
been reorganizing the warehouse storage space.  We have also consolidated
the irrigation supply from around the ranch over into one building at
headquarters to save time looking around the ranch to find supplies.
In February we got the 3 new pivots erected and are finishing up the wiring
so they should be operational by middle of March. The crew has been
helping once a week with the juniper removal project all winter long. We
had a great weather window and was able to burn some fence line and a
couple of fields around the ranch for weed control.
The mechanics have been in the shop fixing up some equipment projects for
us. We rebuilt an old field burning unit that will help in the future for burning
crop residue into carbon for the soil. They have replaced a motor in a
pickup serviced the tractors that needed it. In March will be starting the
engine replacement on the Freightliner semi-truck. We also will be starring tillage work on the pea field. We have 200 acres of peas to plant our 20th of March. The winter wheat will need its fertilizer applied in March. Will start to prepare the land for carrot later in
the month, we are looking around the second week of April to start planting
the carrots.  The crew is also servicing all the pivot for the upcoming
irrigation season.

 

 

Wildlife and Livestock- Sky Sharp

Surveyors came and marked all of Cindy’s encroachments. We removed the
fence on the southwest boundary of the 2 Canyons Feedlot where it was encroaching on the neighbor. And I will start rebuilding it on the property line. Lee Dunn is making great progress on the pipe fence along the canyon and entrance to HQ. I'd like to remove all unneeded fence and the concrete feeders out of that canyon asap. I had to have Chets Electric come out because of a dead short in the electric line that supplies power to water troughs for the cattle in feedlot. After some eﬀort we uncovered two of the junction boxes and damaged both. I’ve placed an order for 4 new junction boxes from Gabe and will replace all of them as soon as possible. Once they
are uncovered and the wiring is accessible I will get Chet’s to come and get the feedlot, and round-pin lights up and working. I have the needed materials to make the existing poles for the new lights. I just need to get in there with a lift and a welder and adapt all them. The cattle are going through around .75 ton of Alfalfa a day currently. I know that the elk are eating some of what I’m feeding on Whitmore pasture. The weaned calves all look good. The amount of moisture in the ground from the weather we had this last month should lean to a big jump in the CheatGrass. Because the cattle are on the dry ground pasture of the Whitmore, they will be able to access that new growth while we have substantial growth on T1 pasture. Elk have been all over 2 Canyons, they have taken out the electric fence on Whitmore several times. We have tried feeding them in other areas but they seem to enjoy following the cattle, and eating the Peas. I have counted nearly 300 elk on T3 twice this past month.


--
"A good head and a good heart are always a formidable combination."

www.ryderredfield.com